...You did it. You were tired of the crowds, so you left them behind. You were tired of the noise, tired of the stress, tired of it all, so you bought a van—outfitted with a comfy bed, a string of lights, and as few other possessions as you could manage—and hit the road. You drove through the day until you reached the coast. As soon as the sound of the waves hit your ears, you felt your shoulders relax, felt the residual tension of the city float away as if washed by the sound. You park on a secluded cliff overlooking the water. The vista is framed by palm trees and gently fluttering beach grasses, and the sea and the sky seem to extend forever. You build a cheery little campfire and settle in to watch the colors of the sunset smear across the sky. The sky grows dark, studded with more stars than you’ve ever seen. You put another piece of wood on the fire. The air is mild and you are content to sit here and watch, to soak in all this peace: the light of the fire dancing on the side of your little van, lights twinkling; the smoke drifting upward and intermingling with the rustling palm fronds above; the stars smiling down at the wondrous expanse of the ocean below. You feel happy, and oh so free...
...The sun is on your face, the sand is beneath your toes...you're on vacation! You slept in today, luxuriating in taking as much time as you wanted without even a glance at the clock. A tropical breeze, scented with hibiscus and the ocean, caresses your face as you step out into the warmth of the late morning. You cross the sand to the beachside café. The café is lively this morning, but you find a quiet table right by the water, where the chatter of the café and the cheerful tropical music floats pleasantly into the background. The tide is high and the water is a pure, glittering blue, dotted with bright distant boats. The breeze gently ruffles the grass umbrella above your table, and sets the palm trees on the jungly green point asway. Your coffee arrives. You wiggle your toes into the silky sand and pull out your book--a nice, juicy beach read. You are fully prepared to stay here all day, marking time only by the playful rhythm of the waves...
...Fourth of July by the lake is a special day, maybe your favorite day of the year. School is a distant memory, summer days sprawl ahead. You experience the world through the sensations on the bottoms of your bare feet: the cool grass, the dusty path, the sun-warmed planks of the dock. You feel ebullient, full of an excitement that fires off in every direction at once. You and the other kids run wild through the yard, past the rusty old red truck, the tire swing, and grandpa playing banjo on the porch. You pass the whole afternoon plunging into fresh, cold water of the lake and re-emerging into the heat of the sun, again and again. When you return to the house, dripping and famished, the barbecue is sizzling and the picnic table is piled high with sausages, burgers, pie, and lemonade. As night falls, fireflies fill the yard with magical dots of light. You are dry now, muscles tired and warm from playing in the lake all day. Blankets have been spread out on the grass, and you flop onto one: it's time for fireworks! The distant booms and crackles mingle with softly chirping crickets as magical sparkles light up the sky over the lake. You stare until your eyes begin to blur, then droop. You can't remember another day so pure and beautiful and full of fun. You drift to sleep...
...It's a beautiful day for a walk by the bay. The sun is glinting off the gentle waves lapping at the shore. The breeze is cool and insistent, and a deep breath fills your nose with the scent of salt and seagrass, along with the far-off fishy smell of the crabbing docks and fishing vessels in the harbor. The blue of the water and the blue of the sky are cut through by the flights of seagulls. You know if you look closely, you might see other birds too: cormorants, oystercatchers, maybe even a pelican. As you walk out towards the jetty, you pause to watch as fishing boats cruise by on their way out to sea, leaving frothy wakes behind them. They are big and heavy--the fishermen on them look tiny, if you can see them at all--yet they move through the water with a quietude, an ease, that you relish. You know you will stay out here all afternoon, watching these boats, listening to these gulls, until the sun finally sets over the water. There is nowhere on earth you would rather be today...
...There is a gentle, fragrant breeze at the top, a welcome caress after the hike. The way up was lovely, but nothing prepared you for the view once you crested the slope. Below you, a valley opened up, a patchwork of farmland dotted with barns and clusters of trees. Beyond that, layers of tree-covered hills receding into the distance, towered over by the spire of a snowy peak. Above, a brilliant blue sky fleeced with puffy white clouds. All this takes your breath away, but the best part is right at your feet: the hillside is dotted with hundreds of big yellow flowers, swaying in the breeze and smiling up at the sun, little treasures in the midst of all these riches. You smile, feeling the warm sun on your face, hearing the sweet twittering of birds in your ears. You resist the urge to burst into song...
...You had high hopes for this camping trip, but so far your every expectation has been exceeded. The weather? Spectacular. The food? Abundant. The group? Laughing and getting along, playing cards and games, cooking and joking around the fire late into the night. Today, the sky seems especially blue and brilliant, and you slip away as the others are settling in for after-lunch snoozes and dips in the lake. You're not sure where you're headed, but you feel like walking, so you start to skirt the edge of the lake, knowing that you'll eventually end up back where you started. You walk for a long time, allowing this rare moment of silence away from the others to wash over you...and realizing that the silence is anything but. Your ears begin to pick up all sorts of sounds, like a picture coming into focus: chattering birds, the ripple and splash of the water, the insistent breeze and the accompanying rustling of grass. You come out from under some trees and stop short, spellbound. Your campsite doesn't have a view of this mountain, but here it is in all its glory, a dusty purple against the blue sky, with veins of last year's snow streaking down its craggy sides. Its stillness and magnitude, towering about the evergreen-covered hills, leaves you in awe. You stare for a long time before turning back. You have to bring the others to see this. Yet at the same time, this solitary moment between you and the mountain will always be yours...
