... All your favorite people are either here or coming soon, but you found a moment of stillness in your kitchen before the celebration. Pots are bubbling on the stove, the turkey's waiting in the oven, and the crisp November afternoon is starting to glow with the first hint of sunset. Soon your table will be crowded with laughter and warmth. Your life is overflowing with abundance...
... It's a mild, breezy autumn Saturday and you've got nothing on your to-do list at all, nothing! Time to brew a pot of your favorite tea and abscond to the sun porch with that book you just started that you can't stop thinking about. There's a little breeze blowing leaves around, but the sun is warm and when you've cozied up your hammock with a blanket, you'll be snug as can be. As you curl up with your book, the gentle sounds of a peaceful fall afternoon in the neighborhood drift in the open windows. Breathe deep and relax. This is the life...
... It was a long day of backpacking, but you finally made it to your campsite: a tree-sheltered clearing set just back from an icy cold mountain river. Douglas fir trees tower over your head; beneath them, vine maples and huckleberry bushes glimmer brilliantly green in the setting sun. You set up your tent on a fragrant bed of pine needles with the last of the fading light, and now you're ready to relax. You head down to the river rocks to build a campfire. In the absence of human sound, you are acutely attuned to the noises of the forest around you transitioning into night: the quieting of certain birds and bugs, the rustling to life of others. The sound of the moving water, though, remains meditatively constant. Your campfire is perfect, and its crackling harmonizes with the splash and rush of the river. You feel small and safe beside this glowing speck of light in the peaceful darkness...
...It’s Halloween night and you’re wandering the neighborhood. There is a perfect crispness in the air, not cold, but just a hint of chill that makes you glad you wore your snuggest sweater and brought this cup of hot apple cider along on your walk. Packs of kids in costumes having been roaming the streets, laughing and yelling, for hours, but as the night continues the opening and shutting of doors and choruses of “Trick or Treat!” have gradually dropped off. Now the neighborhood is quiet. You inhale deeply, feeling the excitement that still hangs in the air even after the kids have been put to bed. Carved pumpkins are still lit on every doorstep, illuminating the crunchy yellow leaves that litter the lawns and the walkways. The grinning jack-o-lanterns seem to wink at you in the flickering light. You have a feeling this night isn’t over yet for you…but where will it lead you?...
...It’s a quiet night in your favorite coffee shop. The downtown outside is hushed and peaceful. You look out at the drops of rain splashing on the sidewalk and decide you might as well stay a little longer—the autumn chill in the rainy air outside makes the warm, friendly cafe, fragrant with the scent of coffee and dimly lit by flickering candles, entirely too cozy to leave. Lucky for you, you have nowhere to be, and this shop provides ample ways to pleasantly waste some time. There’s a magazine rack to peruse. There’s a chess set and some cards as well. You know that if you ask nicely the barista will let you flip through the collection of funky old records behind the counter. And what’s this—someone has left a newspaper behind with the crossword puzzle halfway finished. Maybe you’ll just sit awhile and try to finish it. You settle in with your pen in a spot where you can watch the wind gently shaking the golden leaves outside. There’s no reason to hurry. This is a moment that you want to savor...