...It's stormy out, but you want to get out of the house anyway: you have some writing you want to do, and you need a change of scene. There's only one coffee shop in this little town open in the evenings, but lucky for you it's your favorite spot. The door chime tinkles as you walk in. The warm air momentarily fogs your glasses; when it clears, you look around the room. Everything is homey and familiar. The lighting is dim and cozy and the air is thick with the nutty scent of roasted beans and the sweetness of milk, sugar, and cinnamon. It's a quiet night: perfect. There are plenty of available seats, including your favorite one near the window. You like to watch the people walking by, although they are few and far between on a rainy night like this. You settle in with your notebook and a cup of something steaming; you reflect on the fact that you will in all likelihood order a piece of cake from the display case before the night is over. You watch the rain streaming down the window and let your thoughts begin to wander...
...You sensed it coming all afternoon: a certain anticipatory zing in the air. When it finally did come, in the evening, you smelled it first, on a waft of cool air through your window. A fresh, earthy smell that sends you straight back through time to the rainy afternoons of your childhood. On the porch, your love has pulled up two rocking chairs and set out a pot of calming tea. The lake laps gently, its surface speckled with raindrops. Ghostly wisps of mist move across the water. In the dark hills beyond, a deeper fog settles; your porch, however, is cozily lit by a string of lights, and you feel safe and at home as you gaze out into the wet and silent distance. The distant rolling of thunder fills you with a gentle thrill, and the sound of the rain on the water fills you with a deep, soothing joy. What a blessing to be here, a witness to this rainy evening... 
...You sure wouldn't want to be out in this weather firsthand, but hearing the rain drumming the roof and lashing the windowpanes of your cabin is a true pleasure. How nice it is, how simple, to be safe, warm, and dry. You decide not to turn on the television tonight; a storm like this deserves to be accompanied by a roaring fire, a good book, and a hot cup of tea. You've set up your windowseat just so, but there's one more thing you need: there are some freshly baked muffins in the kitchen, and you suddenly find that you require one. Returning with your snack, you find that your cat has usurped your seat. She looks at you with just a hint of smugness, confident that you won't be able to bring yourself to kick her off the cushion. She is correct, but you'll find a way for both of you to fit. You'll wait out the storm together...
...You must have slept like a baby, because when your eyes drift open before dawn, you feel fully rested. You consider closing them again, to try to coax yourself back to sleep, but something about the stillness and the faint watery light filling the room makes you change your mind. Rain is drumming against the window. You go over to the windowseat and look out at the mist-enshrouded trees. Some light would be nice, but the electric light seems sacrilegious in the gentleness of the early morning; you light some candles instead. Your bird books are lying on the windowsill where you left them the night before. You planned to go birdwatching today, and you still will, if the rain lets up. For now, even the birds haven't yet woken up. Only you, quietly watching, waiting for the dawn...
...You felt restless, so you left your apartment to wander the streets of the city, strangely quiet and still in the absence of the daytime bustle. You walked farther than you meant to, so when a sudden downpour began there was no way to get home without getting soaked. Sheltered under an awning, you spotted a soft glow nestled amongst darkened storefronts down the block: a 24-hour cafe. Inside, the lighting is dim but welcoming. There are only a few people here, all, like you, alone, burning the midnight oil with their books and notebooks and late-night coffees. Rain is streaming down the windows, blurring the neon signs and streetlights of the city street outside. You settle into your chair with a hot drink, warm and cozy, and feel a surge of companionship for the other night owls here, wondering at the solitary journeys that brought you all here together on this rainy night...
...The facts of the case are puzzling you...it's not like any case you've ever worked before. Something about this town, these trees, these people... every person here has a secret, some deep, some unfathomable. There are strange and mysterious forces at work. Your mind roams, searching for some clue to penetrate the veil, from the sheriff's department, to the mill, to the Great Northern Hotel, to the Double R Diner where you now sit, watching a heavy rain batter the Douglas firs outside the window. You pick up your tape recorder to record a message for Diane, but then set it down again: your pie and coffee have arrived! Oh, what glorious, miraculous pie and coffee this place has! Every day you like to give yourself a present, and more days than not it's a slice of this spectacular cherry pie, washed down with a damn, damn fine cup of coffee...
...It's a little early, but the lure of your cozy bedroom has been calling you all afternoon, and as evening starts to set in you have no reason not to follow that urge. A cozy fire is crackling in the wood stove, throwing a warm glow onto the wooden walls of your rustic little room. You do your best not to disturb your cat, who is curled up on the rumpled quilt, tranquilly soaking in the stove's heat. You settle in with your book and cup of tea, but your gaze keeps wandering up to the windows, and the forested hills, swathed in mist and dripping with rain, beyond. With your mind's eye you fly beyond your window, into the trees, and watch them, still and dripping as the clouds burst above; you hear the water droplets bouncing off the leaves of the trillium on the forest floor; you imagine tiny creatures of the forest, sheltering in burrows, safe and content as they wait out the storm. You drift back to your room, snuggling deeper under your quilt; you too are sheltered, safe and content as you wait...
...It looked like it was going to be a perfect night for a campfire outside, but you had no sooner gotten it roaring when dark clouds rolled in. You barely made it to the porch before the downpour began. Your disappointment at this turn of events didn't last long; you enjoy stargazing by the fire on a clear night, but cuddling up in your cozy cabin with your cat and listening to the rain might be even better. You head into your tidy A-frame and climb the ladder to your loft bedroom. You love this room. The walls slanting down from the peaked roof create a pleasing triangle just the right size for your bed, and huge windows that reach all the way from the roof peak to the floor create the feeling of being completely surrounded by the lush green of the forest outside. The room is warm and cozy, and the bed divine as you lay on your back to watch the rivers of rain running down the slanted windows. Before too long, your eyes start to feel heavy, the lullaby of the rainstorm carrying you inexorably toward gentle dreams...